The theme of our broadcast is a very comforting one.
Being securely wrapped in the bag of life with Jehovah.
Perhaps the thought of being securely wrapped makes us think of a safely swaddled baby
or being enveloped in the warm blanket on a cold night.
In the Bible, these words were uttered by the woman Abigail to Jehovah's servant David.
To understand the meaning of the words and their importance today,
let's review the context the first Samuel chapter 25.
David and 600 of his men were dwelling as fugitives.
They eventually encountered men who worked as shepherds for Abigail's husband, Navel.
David and his men began to help guard Navel's flocks and serve as a protective wall for Navel's flocks and servants
against thieves and invaders who roamed through the wilderness.
It was likely challenging to find enough food for 600 soldiers.
So David decided to send 10 of his men to kindly ask Navel for food
in repayment for the services that they had performed.
But at first Samuel, chapter 25, verse 10,
and 11, note Navel's reply.
Navel answered David's servants,
who is David?
And who is the son of Jesse?
Nowadays, many servants are breaking away from their masters.
Do I have to take my bread and my water and the meat that I butchered from my shears
and give it to men who come from who knows where?
This was not the response that David and his men were expecting to hear.
The Bible describes Navel as a very harsh, worthless man,
and this is certainly evidence by his reply.
He screamed insults at the messengers and ridiculed David,
comparing him to a runaway servant.
So David decided to take matters into his own hands
and resolve the situation the way many people today might by fighting.
In verse 13, he has 400 of his men prepared themselves for battle
with one mission to wipe out every male in Navel's household.
Eventually, we're getting back to Abigail about what her husband had done.
Without telling Navel, she gathered an abundance of food and went out to meet David.
When she met up with him, she poured out her hearted length,
asking David to forgive her personally and making a powerful plea for mercy
on behalf of her husband and her household.
She acknowledged that Navel was a foolish and senseless man.
So she urged David not to take any action that might bring blood guilt upon him
or cause him to be affected by a troubled conscience.
As Abigail concluded her appeal to David, notice what she tells him in verse 29,
the theme of our discussion.
When someone rises up to pursue you and seeks your life,
the life of my Lord will be wrapped securely in the bag of life with Jehovah your God.
But the lives of your enemies, he will hurl away like stones from a slink
just as we might wrap up something valuable in order to protect and preserve it.
Abigail was telling David that is how his life would be in Jehovah's hands.
Jehovah would protect and preserve David's life from his enemies
as long as he did not seek to save himself by personal efforts.
But waited on Jehovah, trusting in the one to whom he owed his life.
What lessons can we learn from this account?
As David saw, his relationship with Jehovah was a protection.
In verse 32, he acknowledges that God had sent Abigail with the warning.
We learn that Jehovah's spiritual protection for us is related to the quality of our relationship with him.
That's why the Bible tells us at James chapter 4, verse 8,
draw close to God and he will draw close to you.
Jehovah invites us to draw near to him because he wants to receive us into his favor as his friends.
When we dedicate our lives and vow to serve him unconditionally,
we gain an approved standing with him where figuratively put in that bag of life.
And as we work to develop a close personal relationship with him,
then we can experience Jehovah's friendship and protection.
We would never want to restrict Jehovah's protection by not looking to him for guidance or relying on our own thinking.
Now, can we think of areas or situations that might require us to wait on Jehovah?
Perhaps we're experiencing literal opposition at work or at school.
Like Abigail, he might face the challenge of living with a difficult marriage made.
Maybe we're battling a health issue and loyalty is needed regarding our medical choices.
Or it may be that we live in a country where we cannot preach freely or we face opposition for our beliefs.
Really, it could be any number of situations, but it is our response,
the way we handle the situation, that indicates how much we are allowing Jehovah to help us.
Do we trust him enough that we can leave the matter in his hands and see how he works things out in our behalf?
We have to manifest Christian qualities in order to do that.
Think about what qualities displayed by Abigail and David impress you most.
To that come to mind, our patience and reasonableness.
Patience is closely connected with endurance and enables one to put up with difficult circumstances while maintaining a positive attitude.
Reasonableness describes a person who is fair, considerate, willing to yield to others.
How well this describes Abigail.
It must have been quite a challenge to live with someone like Nebel.
But nowhere do we read that she was ever disrespectful of him or that she belittled him.
Even when she referred to him as senseless in verse 25,
from Jehovah's standpoint, her comments were proper because Nebel's actions put his entire household in danger.
How about David?
He was in a position of authority, but he showed great patience and reasonableness in listening to Abigail
and having the good sense to know that she was right.
That's not always easy to do when the heat of the moment or when we're upset.
Perhaps you recall that our don't give up regional convention last year.
When discussing 2nd Peter chapter 1 verses 5 through 8,
we learned a nice formula that can help us to cultivate and strengthen Christian qualities.
We were encouraged to study them, meditate on them,
and put them into practice.
If we apply this formula with the qualities of patience and reasonableness,
it can help us to endure our trials successfully.
And we're confident that Jehovah will supply us with whatever power we need
so that we will not tire out as we continue to endure and put our trust in him.
In addition to developing these qualities, something else that can help us is our spiritual routine.
Our consistent routine of study, meeting attendance, and the ministry will help us remain busy.
Stay active and make good decisions.
We'll have no time to become curious or occupy with the things this world has to offer.
It's good to remember the people during the days of Haggai.
When the Jews lost their focus and started neglecting Jehovah's temple,
they lost his blessing and protection spiritually.
And what was the result?
Well, notice how Haggai draws our attention to a different type of bag,
at Haggai chapter 1 verse 6.
You have so much seed, but you harvest little.
You eat, but it is not to satisfaction.
You drink, but you do not drink your fill.
You put on clothing, but no one gets warm.
The one who hires himself out puts his wages in a bag full of holes.
The Jews sowed seed, but had a meager harvest.
They lacked enough food to satisfy their needs.
They were unable to clothe themselves with warm garments.
Because Jehovah withheld his blessings,
Haggai rightly compared them to a man who puts his wages in a bag full of holes.
Imagine the disappointment of discovering that hard-earned wages
had gradually disappeared through a leaking bag.
Of course, our focus is not material prosperity,
because whether we have an abundance of material things or not,
if we fail to receive Jehovah's blessing,
our spirituality is jeopardized.
So we must be determined to never lose our focus
and keep Jehovah in the forefront of our lives.
When we examine the life of David,
it's evident that he enjoyed a preserved
and protected relationship with God.
When we read the book of Psalms,
take note of how David describes Jehovah's protective care.
In Psalm 18, Psalm 31,
and Psalm 34, as he went through distresses,
just beautiful accounts.
Now, did David always do everything the right way?
No. Think of his encounter with Navel.
While his angry reaction was understandable,
his way of expressing it was not correct.
But David learned from his mistakes,
and each new trial that he went through strengthened his relationship
with Jehovah even more.
For example, after the ordeal with Navel,
a short time later, David married Abigail.
They were still fugitives,
but he found a king that befriended them,
and gave David's men and family a land to dwell in.
One day, while all the men were away,
the Amalakites raided and burned the city
and carried off all the men's wives, children, and flocks.
Upon returning and seeing what had happened,
David and his men wept.
Grief quickly turned to bitterness,
and David's men spoke of stoning him.
This was likely quite stressful for David.
He was concerned for the safety of his family,
and likely he was frustrated that his men had turned on him.
Maybe he felt disrespected again as he had with Navel.
So how would he handle this situation?
We get a glimpse of David's feelings at 1 Samuel, chapter 30, verse 6.
David was very distressed,
because the men were talking of stoning him,
for all the men had become very bitter
over the loss of their sons and daughters.
But notice, how did David handle the situation?
The verse continues,
but David strengthened himself by Jehovah his God.
How did he do this?
Verse 8 says,
David inquired of Jehovah.
This time, David has a different thought process and response.
Immediately, he remembers to consult Jehovah.
Isn't this a nice reminder that when you and I
are going through difficult trials and situations,
we want to immediately pray to Jehovah
and seek his direction through the pages of his word, the Bible.
This is essential for our spiritual protection.
So in review,
as we face difficult situations in life,
may we look for opportunities to show and develop
our Christian qualities, such as patience and reasonableness.
These qualities show Jehovah that we want to be like him,
that we have the mental disposition of Christ,
and that we will allow him to guide us constantly.
Next, may we keep focused and busy in the work of the Lord,
by drawing close to Jehovah through prayer,
and engaging in spiritual activities,
we make the best of our situation now.
But we will also find,
everlasting protection in Jehovah's hands,
safely swaddled,
and securely wrapped in his bag of life.